- Throughout this course,
we've talked a lot about managing tradeoffs
in a microservices architecture.
I have talked about the various improvements to a system
that can be achieved through microservices
as well as the potential impacts.
I have also talked about the operational costs
and the need to build out a continuous delivery model.
All of what we have discussed
boils down to one major thing, culture.
The single most effective way to be successful
in a microservices architecture
is to build it into your culture.
A devops culture is a perfect fit
for building out a microservices architecture
because the two compliment each other's strengths
while mitigating the weaknesses.
Devops aims to bring the conversation
between operations and development into the same sphere.
It is from this perspective that we will spend some time.
I've talked a lot about increased operational complexity
of a microservices architecture.
From the distribution tax
to the large deployment counts for a full system,
most of the issues from microservices
can be seen as operational issues.
The distribution tax in a microservices architecture
is one that must be closely monitored
to ensure lag in the system doesn't have major impacts.
There are several architectural mitigations
we have discussed, but regardless of the mitigations,
monitoring the system remains the most important aspect.
A platform of continuous monitoring and automated responses
become a necessity for operations.
Devops aims to leverage automation
and embed the work into the development function.
We spent a significant amount of time
talking about common logging and tracing for a reason.
They lead to a simpler use case for automated monitoring.
Once we have the data
and have it in a unified and structured format,
we can write code to respond in an automated fashion.
Consider increased response times
or increased 500 response codes
triggering re-paving of the infrastructure
or at the very least a pager call.
By automating these routines,
your culture will drive ways
to make these automated responses even more efficient,
which in turn gives you better responses to system events.
Consider also the complexity of deployments
in a microservices architecture.
Managing the deployment and releases of code manually
becomes impossible in this style.
Again, we discussed CICD as a requirement of microservices
for a reason.
Automation of deployments and testing
improves the agility of the team.
The operational events that are manual
in a traditional model are improved with automation
which in turn provides more throughput
from the team as a whole.
Ultimately, much of what we have discussed in this course
has been about culture.
We want to maximize the positives like scaling, agility,
and the ability to globally distribute our system.
To do that, we have to automate.
We also need to mitigate the latency
and complexity of deployments as well as general operations.
Once again, to do that, we have to automate.
The devops culture
breeds a more successful microservices platform
and a more successful platform
breeds a deeper devops culture.
They go hand in hand for a reason
so don't fight it, embrace it.